opmlsub.rb - script to add a feed to an OPML file

Chip Camden, July 2010

Three scripts:

clipsub		Example of subscribing to a feed from the X clipboard
feeds.rb	List the feeds discovered by site(s)
opmlsub.rb	Add a feed to an OPML file

---------------------

clipsub - Subscribe to a feed whose URL is on the X clipboard

This script is just an example of how you could  automate the process
of subscribing to a feed when running on X windows.  You would need
to change the name of the OPML file it contains and the name of the
element where new feeds should be added (the -i option).

Here's how it works.  I'm in Firefox, looking at a site to which I'd
like to subscribe.  I press:

1. ctrl+L	highlights the address bar
2. ctrl+C	copies the URL to my clipboard
3. mod4+shift+S	which is mapped as an xmonad shortcut to clipsub

The clipsub script autodiscovers the first RSS 2.0 feed (or first ATOM feed,
if there is no link for RSS) and adds it to my OPML file using opmlsub.rb.
If an error occurs, a message window pops up.

Alternately, if I have a link to the feed I want, I can just copy that
to the clipboard and proceed to step 3.

----------------------

feeds.rb - List the feeds discovered by site(s)

usage:  feeds.rb URL...

This script lists all RSS 2.0 and ATOM feeds that are discovered on each
of the URL arguments.

Example:

% feeds.rb http://chipsquips.com
http://www.chipsquips.com/?feed=rss2
http://www.chipsquips.com/?feed=atom

----------------------

opmlsub.rb - Add a feed toan OPML file

usage: opmlsub.rb -s URL [-i TEXT] FILE...
    -i, --inside TEXT                Text of OPML entry to add this to (default = top)
    -s, --subscribe URL              URL of site to subscribe

This script can read FILE arguments or from stdin, and sends the new output OPML to stdout.
Exactly one URL must be specified, which is the URL to add.  This may be the URL of a feed, 
or of an HTML page that discovers one or more feeds.  If the latter, then the first RSS 2.0
feed link encountered will be used.  If no RSS 2.0 links are found, then the first ATOM link
will be used instead.  If no links are discovered, an error occurs.

If -i is specified, then TEXT is the value of the "text" attribute of the "outline" element
in the OPML which will be the container for the new subscription.  If not found or not
specified, then the new element will be at the topmost level (a direct child of the "body"
element).

Example:

% opmlsub.rb myfeeds.opml -s http://chipsquips.com -i "Favorite Feeds"
%

END
